Update sample (#66)
IBM/the-mesh-for-data: samples/kubeflow/README.md

> # Kubeflow Jupyter notebook demo

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer: @tomersolomon1 there are a lot of steps for each persona. Did you consider formating as steps? would reduce the need to use "then", "before" --- mostly applies to the data user part.

Author: Cool, added these, see last updates

This demo demonstrate the use of The Mesh for Data with Kubeflow notebooks.

> The following demo and instructions have been tested on Kind and OpenShift clusters. The commands are assume the use is in root directory of the project.

Author: Added version and fixed the other sentence. Also added the assumption about having a functional Kubernetes cluster in advance.

# Kubeflow Jupyter notebook sample

This sample demonstrate the use of The Mesh for Data with Kubeflow notebooks.
The following sample and instructions have been tested on kind v0.10.0 and OpenShift 4.3 clusters, and against Kubeflow v1.0.2.
The instructions below assume that they are issued from the root directory of the project, and you have created a Kubernets cluster in advance (either Kind or OpenShift).

## Connectors stack

This sample uses the default stack:
- Credentials manager: Hashicorp Vault (aka Vault)
- Data catalog: ODPi Egeria (aka Egeria)
- Policy manager: Open Policy Agent (aka OPA)

## Actors and flows

> A _data owner_ uploads a transactions.csv file to as s3 compatible object storage (e.g., Ceph, minio, IBM Cloud Object Storage, Amazon S3, etc.). Then, the data owner registers the asset in Egeria data catalog and adds tags to the asset to mark it as finance data. Finally, the data owner registers the credentials to access this asset in Vault credentials manager.

Author: Not sure, probably a mistake

A _data steward_ creates policies in OPA policy manager. These policies set transformations to perform on data columns when accessed for the purpose of fraud-detection.

A _data user_ creates a notebook server in Kubeflow and a notebook with the business logic for creating a fraud detection model. The data user also creates a `M4DApplication` resource that references the transactions.csv asset from the data catalog. This allows the code in the notebook to load the data (after policies are applied to it).

## Installation

Run the following script to install The Mesh for Data core components and third party dependencies required for this sample.
Please note that it may take a while for the M4D containers to be ready as the container images may need to be downloaded.

```bash
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=m4d-system
```

Install on OpenShift:
```bash
WITHOUT_OPENSHIFT=false ./hack/install.sh
```

**Or**

Install on Kind:
```bash
./hack/install.sh
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Feel free to do it in another PR of course

> 

Author: I think the README should be a stand-alone, so it'd be handled later in a different PR.

> 

Reviewer 2: Sure, keep in mind that we don't keep duplicate documentation.

Install kubeflow on your cluster.
On a Kind cluster for example you can use the following script to install it:
```bash
cd samples/kubeflow/install/kubeflow
./install_kubeflow.sh

cd -
```

Install the Arrow-Flight module
```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/the-mesh-for-data-flight-module/master/module.yaml
```

## Data owner instructions

> 1. Upload the file `data.csv` to an object-storage of your choice. For example, IBM's COS.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add links?
```suggestion
1. Upload [data.csv](data.csv) to an object-storage of your choice. For example, IBM [Cloud Object Storage](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/cloud-object-storage).

```

`data.csv` contains the first 100 rows from the following [data set](https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1/data) created by NTNU, and it is shared under the ***CC BY-SA 4.0*** license.

2. Alter the `fullPath` field in the json `example_transactions.csv.json` to contain the details of your object storage location, etc.
See the comments in [third_pary/egeria/usage/create_new_asset.sh](../../third_party/egeria/usage/create_new_asset.sh) for more details.

3. Register the asset using the following command:

```bash

cd third_party/egeria/usage

# Wait for the port-forward to take effect before proceeding to the next command
kubectl port-forward -n egeria-catalog svc/lab-core 9443:9443 &

# path-to-transactions.csv.json can be for example ../../../samples/kubeflow/example_transactions.csv.json for using the example file
./create_new_asset.sh <path-to-transactions.csv.json> 'finance'

cd -
kill $!
```

4. Save the asset ID (example for asset-id is 5de27155-48d3-4d78-8767-73e7b264e394).
Export it to environment variable:
```
export ASSET_ID=<asset-id>
```

> 5. Register the credentials for the dataset in Vault. Currently, only hmac credentials are supported.
> Due to consistency with internal systems, currently the terms `access_key` and `secret_key` are used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Register in Vault the S3 credentials `access_key` and `secret_key` required to access the dataset . 
```

Author: I pushed a newer version with (just) saying aka `access_key_id` and `secret_access_key`

## Actors and flows

A _data owner_ uploads a transactions.csv file to as s3 compatible object storage (e.g., Ceph, minio, IBM Cloud Object Storage, Amazon S3, etc.). Then, the data owner registers the asset in Egeria data catalog and adds tags to the asset to mark it as finance data. Finally, the data owner registers the credentials to access this asset in Vault credentials manager.

A _data steward_ creates policies in OPA policy manager. These policies set transformations to perform on data columns when accessed for the purpose of fraud-detection.

A _data user_ creates a notebook server in Kubeflow and a notebook with the business logic for creating a fraud detection model. The data user also creates a `M4DApplication` resource that references the transactions.csv asset from the data catalog. This allows the code in the notebook to load the data (after policies are applied to it).

## Installation

Run the following script to install The Mesh for Data core components and third party dependencies required for this demo.

> It will take a while for all containers to be ready due to image downloads. 

Author: Fixed

```bash
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=m4d-system

# For running on OpenShift
WITHOUT_OPENSHIFT=false ./hack/install.sh

> # For running on Kind

Author: Is it explicit enough now?

./hack/install.sh
```

> Install kubeflow on your cluster. This sample (and code) was tasted against kubeflow v1.0.2.

Author: Moved to the beginning of the readme

On a Kind cluster for example you can use the following script to install it:
```bash
cd samples/kubeflow/install/kubeflow
./install_kubeflow.sh

cd -
```

Install the Arrow-Flight module
```

> kc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/the-mesh-for-data-flight-module/master/module.yaml

Author: Fixed

```

## Data owner instructions

Upload the file `data.csv` to an object-storage of your choice. For example, we tested the code against IBM's COS.

> `data.csv` contains the first 100 rows from the following [data set](https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1/data)

Reviewer: please check that we are distributing the data.csv file under the same license as the original data.
Please check the license at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

Author: I see now that according to the license, we must redistribute this under the same license and credit the authors. The license is `CC BY-SA 4.0`. I'm not sure what should I write and where in order to do that.

How about:
```
`data.csv` contains the first 100 rows from the following data-set [data set](https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1/data) created by NTNU, and is shared under the ***CC BY-SA 4.0***.
```

Reviewer: @tomersolomon1 maybe add a file "data.csv.license.md" ? with the license information
Do include the statement you wrote as well.

Reviewer 2: > @roee88 Thanks, I read it now ;)
> Could you please be more specific?
> I see two main issues:
> 
> * I see can change future tense to present tense.
> * change some of the Vault-related instructions, for example write `Create secret` instead of **Create secret**.
> 
> Anything else you noticed?

Avoid using "we"

Author: Ok, added that line and a file containing that license, as I found in here:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.txt

> After uploading the data to some object-storage, alter the `fullPath` field in the json `example_transactions.csv.json` to contain the details of your object storage location, etc.

Reviewer: After uploading the data to some object-storage ---> After uploading the data to an  object store

Author: Fixed

See the comments in [third_pary/egeria/usage/create_new_asset.sh](../../third_party/egeria/usage/create_new_asset.sh) for more details.

Then, register the asset using the following command:

```bash

cd third_party/egeria/usage

# Wait for the port-forward to take effect before proceeding to the next command
kubectl port-forward -n egeria-catalog svc/lab-core 9443:9443 &

# path-to-transactions.csv.json can be for example ../../../samples/kubeflow/example_transactions.csv.json for using the example file
./create_new_asset.sh <path-to-transactions.csv.json> 'finance'

cd -
kill $!
```

Save the asset ID (example for asset-id is 5de27155-48d3-4d78-8767-73e7b264e394).
Export it to environment variable:
```
export ASSET_ID=<asset-id>
```

> The credentials for the asset need to be registered in Vault. Currently, we're supporting hmac credentials only.

Reviewer: Currently, we're supporting hmac credentials only.
--->
Currently, Only  hmac credentials are supported.

Author: Fixed

## Data user instructions

1. Create a port-forward to communicate with Kubeflow:
```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system 8080:80 &

cd samples/kubeflow/
```

2. Upload the notebook:
- Open your browser in `http://localhost:8080`.
- Click **Start Setup** and then **Finish** (use the `anonymous` namespace).
- Click **Notebook Servers** (in the left).
- In the notebooks page select in the top left the `anonymous` namespace and then click **New Server**.
- In the notebook server creation page, set `kf-notebook` in the **Name** box and then click **Launch**. Wait for the server to become ready.

> - Click **Connect** and upload `kfM4DPolicyDemo.ipynb` notebook to the server.

Reviewer: can we rename the notebook name: Demo-->Sample ?

Author: Done
